Q1 What is Apache hadoop ?
   Apache Hadoop is an open source framework that is used to efficiently
   store and process large datasets ranging in size from gigabytes to petabytes of data.

   Four main modules:
   1.HDFS: HDFS is a distributed file system that handles large data sets running on commodity hardware. Default size of HDFS data block is 128 MB.
   Features of HDFS:Fault tolerance,High availability,High reliability,Replication,Scalability,Distributed Storage

   2.YARN: Yet Another Resource Negotiator is a large-scale, distributed operating system for big data applications 
   YARN is responsible for allocating system resources to the various applications running in a Hadoop cluster

   3.MAPREDUCE: MapReduce is a processing technique and a program model for distributed computing based on java. The MapReduce algorithm contains two important tasks,    namely Map and Reduce. 
   Map takes a set of data and converts it into another set of data, where individual elements are broken down into tuples(key/value pairs). 
   Secondly, reduce task, which takes the output from a map as an input and combines those data tuples into a smaller set of tuples. As the sequence of the name MapReduce    implies, the reduce task is always performed after the map job.

   4.HADOOP COMMON:It refers to the collection of common utilities and libraries that support other Hadoop modules.

   Hadoop mainly works on 3 different modes:
   1)Standalone Mode(Local Mode):It is default mode in which hadoop run. It is mainly used for debugging where we don't really use HDFS
   2)Pseudo-Distributed Mode(Single Node Cluster):In this mode all the Hadoop daemons will be running on a single node.
   3)Fully-Distributed Mode(Multi Node Cluster): In this mode all daemons are executed in separate nodes forming a multi-node cluster.
	 Hadoop Daemons: It is a set of processes that run on Hadoop.

Q2 What is Apache kafka ?
   It is a high throughout distributed messaging system frequently used with hadoop.

Q3 What is Apache impala ?
   Impala is a MPP (Massive Parallel Processing) SQL query engine for processing huge volumes of data that is stored in Hadoop cluster. 
   It is an open source software which is written in C++ and Java.

Q4 What is Apache Spark?
   It is lightning fast and general purpose computation engine for large-scale processing. 
   It can process the data up to 100 times faster than MapReduce.

Q5 What is Cloudera ?
   cloudera is used to deploy and manage hadoop and understanding
   the data that serves as the lifeblood of any organization.

Q6 What is Virtual box ?
   VirtualBox is designed to run virtual machines on your physical machine without reinstalling your OS that is running on a physical machine.

Q7 What is Virtual Machine?
   Virtual machine is a computer resource that uses software instead of a physical computer to run programs and deploy apps.

Q8 What are the Big Data Tools?
   Apache Hadoop,Apache Spark,Flink,Apache Storm,Apache Cassandra,MongoDB,Kafka,
   Tableau,RapidMiner,R Programming

Q9 What are the different types of MapReduce programs ?
   1. wordcount  2. wordmean  3.sort    4.wordmedia  5. join

Q10 cloudera and hadoop difference  ?
    cloudera                                                          HADOOP
    1.The management tool of Cloudera is Cloudera Manager.  

Q10 Sharding: Sharding is a method for distributing a single dataset across multiple databases.
                             
Q11 What is Replication ?
    Replication stores multiple copies of a dataset, known as replicas, on multiple nodes. 
    type:Full-table, transactional,snapshot, merge..etc

Q12 Master Slave Replication ?
    During master-slave replication, nodes are arranged in a master-slave configuration, 
    and all data is written to a master node. 
    Once saved, the data is replicated over multiple slave nodes 

Q13 peer to peer replication ?
    With peer-to-peer replication, all nodes operate at the same level.
    In other words, there is not a master-slave relationship between the nodes.
    Each node, known as a peer, is equally capable of handling reads and writes.

Q14 jar file
    JAR stands for Java ARchive. It is based on ZIP file formate and is used for aggregating many files into one.

Q15 What is Big Data?
    Big data is a combination of structured, semistructured and unstructured data collected by an organizations.

Q16 Big data 4 phases:- 
    data collection, data storage, data analysis, and knowledge creation.

Q17 What are the 5 V's/Components in Big Data?
    volume -refers to the size and amounts of big data
    value -refers to how useful the data is in decision making
    variety -refers to the diversity and range of different data types
    velocity -refers to the high speed of accumulation of data
    veracity -refers to  accuracy of data

Q18 hive and mapreduce difference 
                MapReduce                                                   Hive
   1. It is a Data Processing Language                        1. It is a SQL-like Query Language.
   2. It converts the job into map-reduce functions.          2. It converts the SQL queries to HQL(Hive-QL)
   3. It provides low level of abstraction.                   3. It provides a high level of abstraction.

Q20 What is cloud computing: Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources which is basically provide data storage, computing power.

Q19 Structured data: The data which is often stored in tabular form.  
    Ex: SQL Table in DBMS
    Unstructured Data : Data that does not conform to a data model or data schema is known as unstructured data
    Ex: Image, Video, Audio etc.
    Semi-Structured Data: Semi-structured data has a defined level of structure and consistency, 
    but it is not relational in nature.
    Ex: XML, JSON files, Sensor Data etc.

Q20 What is Data Analysis?
    Data analysis is the process of examining data to find facts, relationships, patterns, insights and/or trends.
    Data analytics is a discipline that includes the management of the complete data lifecycle.

• Descriptive analytics-carried out to answer questions about events that have already occurred.
• Diagnostic analytics-aim to determine cause of a phenomenon that occurred in past using questions 
  that focus on reason behind the event.
• Predictive analytics-carried out in an attempt to determine the outcome of an event that might occur in the future
• Prescriptive analytics-build upon the results of predictive analytics by prescribing actions that should be taken

Q21 What is RDBMS?
    RDBMS is a collection of programs and capabilities that enable IT teams and other to create, update the records

Q22 What is NoSql and what are the characteristics?
    NoSQl is a set of concepts that allows that rapid and efficient processing of data sets with a focus on performance.
    1)Support Multiple data models
    2)Flexibility
    3)Zero Downtime
 
For a transaction to be Good, it should follow the ACID property.
Automacity: ensures that all operations will always succeed or fail completely. In other words, there are no partial transactions.
Consistancy: ensures that the database will always remain in a consistent state
Isolation: ensures that the results of a transaction are not visible to other operations until it is complete.
Durability: ensures that the results of an operation are permanent.

BASE is a database design principle based on the CAP theorem and leveraged by database systems that use distributed technology. 
BASE stands for:basically available soft state eventual consistency

Q22 What are the fault tolerance feature in HDFS?
    Fault tolerance in Hadoop HDFS refers to the working strength of a system in an unfavourable condition
    and how that system can handle such a situation. Fault tolerance is mainlt achieved using data replication and Heartbeat message.

Q23 What are Hadoop configuartion files?
    Configuration files are the files which are located in the extracted tar.gz file in the etc/hadoop/directory

Q24 What are the different data types used by Hadoop?
   1)Primitive data:Numeric data,Date/Time data,String data
   2)Complex data: Array,MAP,Struct,Union
   3)Columns data: Integral type,Timestamp,Decimal 

Q25 What is NameNode?
    NameNode is the master node in HDFS that manages the file system metadata.

Q26 What is DataNode?
    DataNode is a slave node in HDFS that stores the actual data as instructed by the NameNode.

Q27 Various form of data
    Nominal, Ordinal, Discrete and Continuous.

Q28 Component of big data
    Data sources, Data storage, Batch processing, Analysis and reporting, Analytical data store

Q31 What does wrangling data mean?
   Data wrangling—also called data cleaning, data remediation,
   or data munging—refers to a variety of processes designed to transform raw data into more readily used formats.
   The exact methods differ from project to project depending on the data you're leveraging and the goal you're trying to achieve.

Q32 Hadoop test Command Usage:
    The test command is used for file test operations.
    It gives 1 if a path exists.
    It gives 0 if it has zero length, or path provided by the user is a directory, or otherwise.
    command:hadoop fs -test  -[defsz] <path>

Q33 What is BPM?
    Bussiness process management is used to analyze, improve and automate a company's business processes.

Q34 Data Analytics lifecycle?
    Discovery->Data Preparation->Model Planning->Model Building->Operationlise

Q35 OLTP-Online Transaction Processing is a type of data processing that consist of execcuting a no. of transactions occuring like online banking,shopping etc
    OLAP- Online Analyical Processing is a technology that oragine large business databases.

Q36 Parallel Processing: It is a method in computing of running two or more processors(CPUs) to handle separate parts of an overall task.
    Distributed Processing: It is diverging massive amount of data to several different nodes running in a cluster for processing.

Q37 Heat Map: Heat maps use colors to represent data.

Q38 Clustering & Classification: Classification and clustering are techniques used in big data to analize collected data while clustering is used to group similar data     instance together.

Q39 Provenance: Provenance is information about the origin and creation process of data.

Q40 SCV: It stand for Single Customer View. It is used to collect data from online and offline data sources.

Q41 CAP Theorm: It is distributed database system which can use consistency, availability, and partition tolerance

Q42 Data Mart: It is a single form of data which focuses on a single subject.

In batch mode, data is processed offline in batches and the response time could vary from minutes to hours. 


Q37 Some commands used in Hadoop
    1. hadoop fs -copyFormLocal<local file path> //for copying file form local system to hdfs 
    2. hadoop fs -copyToLocal<hdfs path><local path> // to copy file from hdfs to local system
    3. hadoop fs -checksum <file path> //return the checksum information of a file
    4. hadoop fs -ls <path>//list all files
    5. hadoop fs -mkdir <folder name> // for making directory
    6. hadoop fs -touchz <file name> //for making empty file
    7. hadoop fs -cat <path> // for print file content
    8. hadoop fs -movefromLocal // move file from local to HDFS
    9. hadoop fs -cp <sourse path of HDFS> <destination path of HDFS> // for coping file within HDFS
   10. hadoop fs -mv <sourse path of HDFS> <destination path of HDFS> // for moving file within HDFS
   11. hadoop fs -rmr <file name/dir name> // for deleting file/folder from HDFS
   12. hadoop fs -du <file name> // to know size of each file in the directory
   13. hadoop fs -dus <dir name> // it shows total size of dir/file